- (Narrator) Now that the project is ready,
let's start looking at the demos.
The first one coming up is the
JSON binding default mapping API.
So, what we're going to do is we are going
to make a simple java object, a very simple java bean
give it a lot of attributes, and of course
the getters/setters, and after you create an object out
of that class then we are going to convert that
to a JSON representation and the JSON representation
that results out is going to be converted back
to the java object and all of this we are going
to do using the JSON Binding API.
So, let's go ahead.
The first step is, of course, creating the user bean.
I've chosen a user bean, and then we give it attributes
and generate getters/setters.
So, let's go to the IDE under the source packages.
Let's first create appropriate packages.
The first one being com dot app dot beans.
So, this folder is going to contain all
the beans that I ever create for all
the demos in this application. Okay?
And, the other one will be exclusively for the tests.
So, com dot app dot tests.
So, all the tests that you do for
the stand alone application will be inside this folder.
We'll go on to our packages in the later part
of the videos when we need them.
Okay, so now let's create a user bean so simple java class,
and let's give it attributes.
So, let's say private int id,
(keyboard typing)
name,
email
and
let's say date,
say date of birth.
And the next step is, of course, generating the
getters/setters the encapsulation principle of Java.
Right? So, getters/setters coming up. Okay. So that's done.
The next is, you have to create an instance of user class
and then feed data to it. Okay.
So now that the bean is ready, let's go to the tests folder
and create a java class let's call it testing a simple bean.
Let's grab the main method P S V M
that's the short cut control space.
And then say user.
Let's create an instance.
Okay.
And let's hold on before we actually assign any data
to that user bean.
The next step is, create a JSON B instance
from JSON B builder.
Now, the objective of this demo is
that you have your user object in front
of you, you want to convert this
to a JSON representation and in order to do that.
Of course that is what we are trying to do and learn in
this course, the JSON binding API will help you for this.
So, let's create an empty JSON B instance first.
Yeah, so everything comes from
the Java export JSON dot bind package and then you create
an instance of JSON B. So, how do you do that?
There's a builder class that is provided
in the API which is called JSON builder.
And you just have to invoke the create method on it.
Once, that's done you have to say JSON B and on
that there is a method called to JSON and then you pass
the object that you want to have a JSON representation of.
So, I'm going to pass the user instance.
Okay, additionally let's also do one thing.
Let's take this inner string because this
to JSON API is going to return me a string value
so I'm going to say string result equal
to this and then let's quickly go
and print that result on the next line.
I'm just separating that variable.
It's a simple thing to do. Okay, let's run this.
And see what happens. Okay, that's what I got on my consul.
Now this is a little puzzling because I had four
attributes inside the user bean.
ID, name, email and date of birth and
the JSON representation is unfortunately
only giving me the ID. Why?
Okay, so that is exactly what we say
the default settings are JSON binding API provides.
What happens is, look carefully, inside the user bean
the data type of the ID is integer and by default
the value of an integer that I type in Java is always zero.
For the other data types string and date
the default value in Java is null.
Now when your JSON bindING API tries to generate
the Jason representation for you
it is always going to skip the null values.
Since ID does not have a null value
and has a legal value which is zero
that's why it only picks up ID during
the serialization process to convert java to JSON.
So, that's what this is about.
So, that's not too good.
So what we'll do is now we'll give meaning to
that user object which means we'll set meaningful data.
So, let's come on the next line, line number twenty.
And say user dot set user ID. Let's give it an ID
one, two, three. Lets say. And then user dot set email.
user dot set name
JSON tester.
That's the name that we want to give
and user dot
set date
will be new date
and let's give it a long value, this one.
Okay.
Now that I've given values to all the fields of
the user object now lets generate
the JSON using JSON binding. And check for results.
Yes, do you see?
Now, you have all the attributes with, of course,
the property names.
So, ID, name, email and the date of birth
and the respective values that have come in
and we have our JSON representation ready.
So what we did is we have a simple java object, we tried
to convert it to a JSON document using
the JSON binding API so the entry point
for this entire process is creating the JSON B instance
that you will get from the JSON B Builder API.
So, on that, you invoke the create method and you're done.
And you see how easy it is?
So this is that data binding that we were talking about.
That when you have your user object you just need
to feed it into the builder API and bam,
that JSON document is ready for you.
Okay, next is we'll see the reverse process,
the opposite side which is using JSON B from JSON
to convert the JSON string back to the user object.
Okay, so let's see how to do that.
So, for that right now, I'm going
to take another JSON B instance
so I'll copy this line twenty-five
and just create another instance on twenty-nine.
Let's take JSON B one. Okay, and what are we going to do?
This JSON result that we already have
with our cells we're going to take the same result
and then convert it into the user object. Okay?
So, how do we do that? You take JSON B one and this time
you say from JSON, we earlier said to JSON
this time it will be from JSON, which takes into arguments
that JSON string or if the JSON is stored
in a document it'll take an input string
or a reader object so that it reads out
that string from that document. Okay?
And then the next argument will be the type
of object you want to convert that JSON data back into.
You have a Java object user object I want that the JSON
that I'm reading gets converted into this user object now.
So that type will go inside the second argument, okay?
Let's make sure that we give the result as
the first argument and the type will be user dot class.
Okay, So let's take this cut and print it out basically,
so we'll put it in a sys-out statement
and let's see what happens.
So there you go, that's the JSON representation
that you got when you invoked to JSON and
that is what you go when you invoked from JSON.
And what does it look like, it is the textual representation
of your object, generally how Java displays your objectS.
So, if you don't want this textual representation you can
go and override the two string method.
So let's come to the user class down there
on line number fifty-three, right click insert code
and make sure that two string is overridden so that all
the values of the instance variables are printed instead
of the textual representation.
So, generate, save this, go back to
the simple bean and now run this.
Okay, so this time we have got whatever we wanted. Right?
We can see the user object coming back and
all the respective fields with all
the correct values set perfectly which were read out
from that JSON representation.
Okay, so that's the basic example.
You converted a java object with JSON using the to JSON API
and you converted a JSON string back
to a user object using the from JSON API.
Now of course, to JSON and from JSON
have overloaded versions. Let's quickly take a look.
So when I say to JSON you can just give
the object and you can give the object
and sometimes also mention the type,
or you can give the object and say that you want
to write this to a particular file,
so you can actually mention the writer object doing
the job for you. So these overloaded versions are available.
So, the way you have a writer you also have
an output string, right?
Similarly, you also have the from JSON overloaded
versions which will either take an input string
or will take a reader object
or it will simply take your JSON string.
And of course from JSON will definitely require the type.
Otherwise, it will not be able to understand what
it is supposed to convert back to.
You need proper Java type specified as the second argument.
Okay? So we'll see a lot of default settings.
We've just seen the basic demo.
We'll see the rest of them in the next video.